---
title: "Book Blog 1.10:  Synergy - Habit 6 "
layout: default
---

## Author's Note
Synergy is like finding an out-of-box win/win solution to a proble with participation of two/more interdependent people. It is the outcome of integration of all previous habits, the four endownments, emphathetic listening
and win/win approach. Building an emotional bank deposit is foremeost important in this process, as it will open the communication.

In an organisation or an family, we generally admire the difference in physical nature. But the intellectual, emotional and phsycological differences often seen as a conflict instead of admiring and understanding it.
As the fable goes, in an environment the difference in paradigm respected and understood, we may end up with circumstamnces which are not good for the interdependant involved. The impact could jeoparatize the 
financial, mental and emtional balance of the people involvede.

Look at the nature how the nourish the difference and develop the new solution, combination of tree (forest) prevents soil erosion, decarbonisation. This is an great example of emphatheitic understanding of difference
in paradigm.

Force field analysis, to change we have to implement new positive ideas but the exiting comfort may hinder or block the change. So, we have to eliminate the restraining force by invoking the other habits to maximize the
positive force.

## Personal Opinion
- Easy to be said but need a careful implementation of earlier habits to reap the fruitness of this new paradigm.
- Really a great way to work in a team.
- Nature provides lot of learning to humans.
- Work towards this..........
