---
title: "Book Blog 1.12:  Inside-out "
layout: default
---

## Author's Note
There is a space in between the stimulus and reaction who rules this space rules a effective life. The above is from a book the author had a chance to read that
provided a great insight into the how to think proactively before responding. The discovery of this idea led to building an daily/frequent routine between him and 
his wife to talk about themselves without being interepted and judged. The fruit of the talk is more understanding between the couples resulting an more open
communication between them. Instead of working on outside-in like just putting more love, they developed an inside-out approach, undersatnding more and cultivating
open, non judgemental communication between them.

Also the author wants to insist the idea of living in an intergenerational family and its benefits to the upbring of the children. The roots and wings are the gift
to our children we provide. The root comes from intergenerational family, while the wings the freedom comes from being an transition generation ourselves to the
children. What is the idea? the author want the parents to act as an tranition generation who only pass the positive traits from their root while eliminating the 
negative traits in the roots/family like over powering children with authority.

## Personal Opinion
- Authors personal life story we more easy to apprehend the context.
- There are some write up of Amelix I think I need to read it for a day to get its essence.
