---
title: "Book Blog 1.2: 7 habits Overview"
layout: default
---

## Author's Note
In Part 1 of second chapter, Stephen wanted to give an overview of the seven habits of effective people. The chapter starts with generic habit definition, followed by maturity continumm and need of P/PC balance then ending with how to use and what kind of change will result due to the habits.

A analogy is drived between habit and gravity. The enter into space from earth atmosphere we needed an intial push and energy to get away from earth gravtational effect. In the same way to eliminate our existing habit we have to put lot of efforts and energy. Also, he points the need to use the gravity for mantaining the orbitting. So the positive habits which helps us to keep the balance shouold be nortoured, while new habits should be formed by eleiminating the negative habits.
Habits in general is a intersection of knowledge, skill and desire. We should be doind all this in order to get the habits.

Often people talk about independence in personal and professional life. But there exist three level of maturity continumm namely depedent, independent and interdependent. To become an effective person one should focus on becoming interdepentent level of maturity in physically, intellectually and emotionally.
The seven habits are holistic and interrelated. We canot skip a step and move towards others, atleast the awareness of the frst three stages is required to excel in next three stages. The last is about continuous improvement and learning.

Working in the interdependent level is paramount important for having an effective life as it brings resources of other people and a magic of building great things. But reach that level we should first move from dependent to independent level.

While working with the book or personal development, we should focus on the balance in the P (production) / PC(Production Capacity). Failing to balance will have great impacts on our future similar to the fable of golden goose or schooling syndromes.

The book is intended to be read and executed in chapter wise. Any one who is planning to improve the life has to go throught each stages and develop himself. 
This will bring a new habits which will result a effectiveness in the personal and professional life.

## Personal Opinion
- The analogy makes common man to easily remeber the habits and its effects.
- Fable of golden goose provides a sudden understanding
- the story of layoff needs to be understood properly, what is the solution for an lazy employee?? I think coming parts of book will deal with it.
- Coming on the seven effective habits 
