---
title: "Book Blog 1.3: Habit 1 - Proactive"
layout: default
---

## Author's Note
In chapter 1 of part 2, the first habit (Proactive) of the 7 habits and how it is different from the reactive approach is detailed. The write up starts with the social mirror instead of working on improving ourselves based on what peoples perceive about us, have a self awareness with that try to improve ourselves. Various studying being done on animals to understand the its reaction to stimulus which evolved to the determinism paradigm, where it is assumed that humans will also behave the same way as animals. But human's congnitive capability like imagination, freedoma and conscience is forgotten during this studies. Story of a Jew enprisoned in Nazi camp is highlighted to showcase the pro-active paradigm.

The proactive approach is something only human will be able to perform. The idea is instead of reacting to stimulus, put the cognitive efforts with a different level and get the freedom of thinking and use imagination to remain happy and unwffected. The idea is not about being positive but relaizing the reality while having a different proactive response. The action to an stimulus or blaming the conditions or surrounding for someones failure is clearly not advocated. 

A story involving a stand out executive with authoritarian boss, showcased how to utilize the proactive aproach and fill the weakness to acheive sucess instead of blaming the boss or the suituatuion. 

To improve we should be self-awareness on are we responding is important. We should listen to our launguages at various situation and try to imagine a positive situation when we had a negative past. A method known as circle of concern & Influence is detailed to track our self-awareness is given.  A proactive person should have his circle of influence must completely cover the circle of concern. uncontrollable things shouldn't be focussed. 

Keeping the focus on the circle of influence will get more proactive. Practice proactive for next thirty days and commint for it. It is not easy task for changing your paradigm and putting efforts will bear fruits.

## Personal Opinion
- I still need to re read the chapter get the context once again
- I am planning to reread the chapter once again after I complete the book
- As planned the book is not single time read, it need to read again and again and practiced.
- Thirty days challege I am accepting and committing.
