---
title: "Book Blog 1.5: Habit 2 - Begin with the end in mind: Part 2"
layout: default
---

## Author's Note
This blog covers the left out contents of habit 2 described in chapter 2, part 2 of the book. 
Remaining part looks at the mission statement to be build in order to start begining with end in mind. 
It gives a step to build a mission statement. The suggestion is to start writing the mission statement from the center of influence.
Now the question is on what basis our center of influence is based. There are multiple center are availble therwork, plesure, money, family, spouse, etc,.
But the security, emotion, wisdom and power varies with the type of center we place our center of influence.
Principle based center will account for all values and balance in life. To write a succesful mission statement of an individual the cognitive endowed like
imagination and conscience should be used to think our end of life as given in beginning of the book.

Left and right brains performs specfic tasks. Understanding them and using them for our requirement is important in life.
Right side of brain focus on imaginary, creativity while left side logical and critical reaseaning.
Making use of both and interdependetly is most important to become effective.

As we know the importance and what has to be done to write an mission statement. How about having a one for family and organisation.
In both the example cases the mission should be build with imputs from all the value contributors not just the authorities/supervisiors.
This will act as thje constitution to run the family, the organisation and the personal life. New born or New employees in intial days will
accept this values and work but as they get mature their involvemnt in the mission statement have to there. So there should be periodic mission statement update. 

## Personal Opinion
- Build a mission statement using the congnitive capabilities/endowed.
- Understand the end we want and note it down, make it balanced.
- Share this ideas with people to get more consolidation on the idea and refine it.
- 
