---
title: "Book Blog 1.6: Habit 3 - First thing First"
layout: default
---

## Author's Note
The final chapter of part II in the book focus on the frst thing first. It starts with question of what is the thing if you practicsed daily would have had great
effect on ones personal and professional life? People to people the answer may vary based on their center of Influence. Till previous chapter we have focused on the creator (humans) and the imaginative creation (begin with enf in mind). Now the focus is on actual physcal things, but on which to work. We as a human have lot of things to be done the based on the roles we focus.

Third generation time management focus on daily task planning and achieving though it s some what proavtive but not priciple centered. The generational management
is based on to do list. Then how to prioritize our work. Again this has to be basec on the principle and on the urgency. 

If we look at the way we prioritize our professional or personal works, most might might be catagiritized as urgent and important (Q-1), not urgent but important (Q-2),
urgent and not important (Q -3), not urgent and not important (Q-4). Most of the people who excel at office work give priority to Q-1, which will make the person
crisis manager and work horse. But the leaders focus on Q-2. The task has to balanced Q-1 and Q-2 balanced. While Q-3 and Q-4 must be eliminated fof an effective life.

Using the endowment, imagination, consice, freedom write the important thing in life through the priciple centered mission statement. 
The book also focus on the principles not on the practices. How to practice? It is best to focus on the weekly task than the daily task.
Write the week based plan, execute it and review it. First investigate your exixting system, then eliminate the Q-3 and Q-4 allocate those time to Q-2.

There are two types of management. gofer type or stewardship type. Why someone should work on their managing skill? With one creative mind
with one human in an hour one task could completed, but by delegating work to more people more could be achieved in home or in office.
The delegation could be done in to ways gofer or stewardship. gofer is short sighted solution and it is like do that and do this involves 
no responsibility from the doer. While stewardship delegation focus on training and giving responsibility and get the things done through trust and patience.

It is a good idea to write down the mission statement and build your week and work on it. Create a balanced Q-1 and Q-2 while eliminating Q-3 and Q-4.

## Personal Opinion
- The mission statement is written, this week the plan is done.
- For the next 1 month it is about elevating from the dependent to independent ceiling by working with habit 1, 2 and 3.
