---
title: "Book Blog 1.7:  Emotional Deposit Bank Paradigm "
layout: default
---

## Author's Note
This chapter one of part III focus on the an new paradigm "Emotional Bank deposit". In order to achieve a public victory, the private victory should be achieved through the first three habits, which makes moves
the concerned individual one ladder up from dependent to independent in the maturity continum. Before getting into the habits which serves us to move further in continum towards the interdependence, we have to learn 
about the emotional bank deposit. 

Why? we all know that if we over use our deposit we will be in dept and which will create problem financially, the same is applicable for emotions. One more issue is in case of finance we explicitly know
what is deposit and withdrawal. While in emational context this is seldom segregated. Once we evolved into an independent level with the three habits we should have awareness of this emotional bank deposits.
In office or home, we often manage with gofer approach which is more like an withdrawal from earlier deposits like helping and training. The more we do the emotional deposit the following habits will help us
interdependence. Trust is something which has to be build carefully in any relationship professional or persional.

Six major deposits are understanding others, giving attention to small things, keep commitments, clarify expectations, show personal integrity, aplolize sincerely. In each proplem there is an opportunity.
Law of love is simple unconditional and no expectation.

## Personal Opinion
- Acheiving the emotional deposit is seems difficult as the awareness is needed.
- Focus on the six major deposits.
