---
title: "Book Blog 1.9:  Seek first to be understand then to be understood - Habit 5 "
layout: default
---

## Author's Note
The Chapter of habit 5 starts with two different stories with same context of listening, patient & an optometrist and son & a mother. The stories highlights the drawback of providing the prescreption without diagnosis akin to responding without listening carefully. For a better interpersonal relationship the emphathetic lisentening is key. The importance of characters over the bandaid skills are emphasized to build a interpersonal relationship in order to become trust worthy.
To influence a person positively once should understand the situation of that person unless the individual opens up it is very diffcult to know about him. Build a character so that you remain an emphathetic listener. As a human we all involve in four types of communications reading, writing, speaking and listening, all the traits should be carefully built in an balanaced way.

Emphathetic listening is a charater not a technique. Humans often try to listen to reply but not to understand, we use mostly four types of listening ignoring, pretenting, selective and active. But there is a fifth type called emphathetic listening, seeing the things from other persons paradigm and understanding first.
We humans always get motivated from unsatisfied needs which includes emphathetic listening, an act of building emotional bank account deposit. We do the following four types of autobiographical listening evaluate, probe, advice and interpret from our own fram of reference or paradigm. Instead of using our own autobiographical listening, we should build a emotional deposit through the concerened reflective approach. there are four stages of emphathetic listening reflect, rephrase, concern, concerend rephrasing. Remember unless the other person opens up we wont understand them again to make them open up we should emphathetically listen. As we have seen the need of emphathic listening which makes the process to win/win in interdependent environment. Each one have their own paradigm to work in a environment and get the result we should first seek to understand.

To be understood is another half of the process which is to equally important. Ethos, pathos and logos are the greeks approach for effective communication. Use ths in your presentation. Try to adress the audience concern and express your understanding of the same, most presentation worls on logic alone which should be avoided.

## Personal Opinion
- interpersonal skill of emphathetic listening is necessary character to suceed in an interdependent environment.
- both understand and understood should balanced and properly developed.
- Work on your approach everytime you fail and re learn in human interpersonal relationship
- Build a character not the skill to excel.
- No autobiographical listening
